---
title: Godot学习随笔
date: 2025-02-11
categories: [Game Dev]
tags: [godot, gdscript]
math: true
mermaid: false
render_with_liquid: false
---

## 0. Godot项目中遵循的命名约定

Node的命名使用PascalCase，单词之间没有空格，每个单词大写开头。

其他命名大部分使用蛇形命名法。所有内容都是小写，如果有空格则使用下划线。

## 1. Definition

### 1.1 Variables
You have all the basic datatypes(**int**, **float**, **bool**, **string**, **dicts**). No **Tuples** and **Lists** are replaced by **Arrays**.

```gdscript
# variables and constants
var current_speed = 200
const max_speed = 500
```

You can change the datatype dynamically or you can force one datatype for a variable.

```gdscript
var a_string: String = 'test'
var a_number: int = 123
var switch: bool = true
var some_numbers: Array[int] = [1, 2, 3, 4]
```

### 1.2 Functions

You create functions with `func`. You can specify datatypes for parameters and the return value.

```gdscript
func test_function(param_a: int, param_b: String) -> :
    return true
```

If you don't specify a return value, `void` is returned. Like in Python, indentations assign lines of code to a function.

> There are lots of inbult functions you will use, they all start with an `_`.
> 1. `_ready()` is run when a Node is added to the node tree.
> 2. `_process()` is run on every frame of the game.
{: .prompt-tip }

### 1.3 Flow

You have `if` statements, `while` & `for` loops alongs with the comparison operators (also `continue` & `break`)

### 1.4 Classes

A script is always added to a Node, that Node is a class with default methods and attributes.

Adding a script to a Node2D creates an object with a position, rotation, scale etc.

You can use code to change these calues and also add new ones.

You can target other nodes in 2 ways:
1. `get_node("node path")`
2. `$node path`

## 2. Delta 增量时间

```gdscript
# Called every frame. 'delta' is the elapsed time since the previous frame.
func _process(delta):
    pass
```

### 2.1 Movement

The movement speed of our game is determined by how fast the game runs(how many frames are generated)

当我们谈论游戏速度的时候，我们通常在谈论到底生成了多少帧。一台非常慢的电脑和一台非常快的电脑，这个差距是巨大的。

| Speed(pixels per frame) | Frames per second | Total movement(per second) |
| --- | --- | --- |
| 10px | 30 | 10 * 30 = 300 |
| 10px | 60 | 10 * 60 = 600 |
| 10px | 120 | 10 * 120 = 1200 |

Since come scenes are harder to render than others, it might even run inconsistently on the same system!

> Delta Time measures how long it took to create one frame.
> For example, if the framerate is 60fps, delta time is $1s \div 60 = 0.0167$ or about 17 milliseconds.
{: .prompt-tip }

This information we can use to keep the same at a constant speed regardless of framerate.

We essentially multiply any movement with the delta time.

### 2.2 How framerates influence the game

| Speed(pixels per frame) | Frames per second | Delta time(seconds) | Original movement(per second) | Delta movement(per second) |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 10px | 30 | 1 / 30 = 0.033 | 10 * 30 = 300 | 10 * 30 * 0.033 = 10 | 
| 10px | 60 | 1 / 60 = 0.017 | 10 * 60 = 600 | 10 * 60 * 0.017 = 10 |
| 10px | 120 | 1 / 120 = 0.008 | 10 * 120 = 1200 | 10 * 120 * 0.008 = 10 |

With delta accounted, the game runs at the same speed at any framerate!

## 3. Input

Create an input map. This looks for possible inputs and makes them accessible in the game. For example, we can get the left key and the 'A' key and store them both under 'left' in the input map.

```gdscript
var pressed: bool = Input.is_action_pressed("left")
```

## 4. More on Nodes

```gdscript
# You can target other nodes in 2 ways:
get_node("node path")
$node path
```

You can also give nodes a unique name. When you capture a node in code you can access their properties and call methods on them.

> A major aspect of Godot is to make nodes communicate with each other.
{: .prompt-info }

### 4.1 Area2D

An area that can check if another body enterd. Can be moved by changing the position.

*Check if player entered a house, the lasers will be areas.*

他是一个可以检查另一个物体是否进入的区域。

### 4.2 StaticBody2D

A static body that other bodies collide with. Not supposed to be moved.

*Any static object: Walls, beds, obstacles...*

### 4.3 RigidBody2D

Moving body that moves via physics(like a cannonball). Set an initial velocity.

*The grenade*

### 4.4 CharacterBody2D

Moving body controlled by code. Inbuilt methods.

*Any entity that is controlled by code: The player & all enemies.*


## 5. Signals

When a certain action happens to a node(A body entering an area; a timer running out; 2 bodies colliding;). You can tell the affected node to send a signal, which basically means that you are running a function.

