---
title: "[Godot学习随笔01] Godot 优秀项目、教程、文章、博客推荐"
date: 2025-02-11
categories: [Game Dev, Godot]
tags: [tutorial]
math: false
mermaid: false
render_with_liquid: false
---

## 2. Delta 增量时间

```gdscript
# Called every frame. 'delta' is the elapsed time since the previous frame.
func _process(delta):
    pass
```

### 2.1 Movement

The movement speed of our game is determined by how fast the game runs(how many frames are generated)

当我们谈论游戏速度的时候，我们通常在谈论到底生成了多少帧。一台非常慢的电脑和一台非常快的电脑，这个差距是巨大的。

| Speed(pixels per frame) | Frames per second | Total movement(per second) |
| --- | --- | --- |
| 10px | 30 | 10 * 30 = 300 |
| 10px | 60 | 10 * 60 = 600 |
| 10px | 120 | 10 * 120 = 1200 |

Since come scenes are harder to render than others, it might even run inconsistently on the same system!

> Delta Time measures how long it took to create one frame.
> For example, if the framerate is 60fps, delta time is $1s \div 60 = 0.0167$ or about 17 milliseconds.
{: .prompt-tip }

This information we can use to keep the same at a constant speed regardless of framerate.

We essentially multiply any movement with the delta time.

### 2.2 How frame rates influence the game

| Speed(pixels per frame) | Frames per second | Delta time(seconds) | Original movement(per second) | Delta movement(per second) |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 10px | 30 | 1 / 30 = 0.033 | 10 * 30 = 300 | 10 * 30 * 0.033 = 10 | 
| 10px | 60 | 1 / 60 = 0.017 | 10 * 60 = 600 | 10 * 60 * 0.017 = 10 |
| 10px | 120 | 1 / 120 = 0.008 | 10 * 120 = 1200 | 10 * 120 * 0.008 = 10 |

With delta accounted, the game runs at the same speed at any framerate!

## 3. Input

Create an input map. This looks for possible inputs and makes them accessible in the game. For example, we can get the left key and the 'A' key and store them both under 'left' in the input map.

```gdscript
var pressed: bool = Input.is_action_pressed("left")
```

## 4. More on Nodes

```gdscript
# You can target other nodes in 2 ways:
get_node("node path")
$node path
```

You can also give nodes a unique name. When you capture a node in code you can access their properties and call methods on them.

> A major aspect of Godot is to make nodes communicate with each other.
{: .prompt-info }

### 4.1 Area2D

An area that can check if another body enterd. Can be moved by changing the position.

*Check if player entered a house, the lasers will be areas.*

他是一个可以检查另一个物体是否进入的区域。

### 4.2 StaticBody2D

A static body that other bodies collide with. Not supposed to be moved.

*Any static object: Walls, beds, obstacles...*

### 4.3 RigidBody2D

Moving body that moves via physics(like a cannonball). Set an initial velocity.

*The grenade*

RigidBody2D has a gravity settings that is 1 by default. You can set physics behaviour in the inspector and additional options are set via a PhysicsMaterial.

And you are supposed to set a starting velocity, the movement is then influenced by physics.

### 4.4 CharacterBody2D

Moving body controlled by code. Inbuilt methods.

*Any entity that is controlled by code: The player & all enemies.*
