---
title: "[Godot学习随笔04] 节点"
date: 2025-03-17
categories: [Game Dev, Godot]
tags: [node2d]
math: false
mermaid: false
render_with_liquid: false
---


> There are lots of inbuilt functions you will use, they all start with an `_`.
> 1. `_ready()` is run when a Node is added to the node tree.
> 2. `_process()` is run on every frame of the game.
{: .prompt-tip }





You can target other nodes in 2 ways:
1. `get_node("node path")`
2. `$node path`

## 4. More on Nodes

```gdscript
# You can target other nodes in 2 ways:
get_node("node path")
$node path
```

You can also give nodes a unique name. When you capture a node in code you can access their properties and call methods on them.

> A major aspect of Godot is to make nodes communicate with each other.
{: .prompt-info }

### 4.1 Area2D

An area that can check if another body entered. Can be moved by changing the position.

*Check if player entered a house, the lasers will be areas.*

他是一个可以检查另一个物体是否进入的区域。

### 4.2 StaticBody2D

A static body that other bodies collide with. Not supposed to be moved.

*Any static object: Walls, beds, obstacles...*

### 4.3 RigidBody2D

Moving body that moves via physics(like a cannonball). Set an initial velocity.

*The grenade*

RigidBody2D has a gravity settings that is 1 by default. You can set physics behaviour in the inspector and additional options are set via a PhysicsMaterial.

And you are supposed to set a starting velocity, the movement is then influenced by physics.

### 4.4 CharacterBody2D

Moving body controlled by code. Inbuilt methods.

*Any entity that is controlled by code: The player & all enemies.*
